# What is OAuth

*What is OAuth?*

OAuth is an open-standard authorization protocol or framework that describes how unrelated servers and services can safely allow authenticated access to their assets without actually sharing the initial, related, single logon credential.

*Give an example of what using OAuth would look like*

When you can log on a website using another websites account, like logging on to facebook with google account.

*How does OAuth work? What are the steps that it takes to authenticate the user?*

OAuth essentially allows the user, via an authentication provider that they have previously successfully authenticated with, to give another website/service a limited access authentication token for authorization to additional resources.

1. The first website connects to the second website on behalf of the user, using OAuth, providing the user’s verified identity.
2. The second site generates a one-time token and a one-time secret unique to the transaction and parties involved.
3. The first site gives this token and secret to the initiating user’s client software.
4. The client’s software presents the request token and secret to their authorization provider (which may or may not be the second site).
5. If not already authenticated to the authorization provider, the client may be asked to authenticate. After authentication, the client is asked to approve the authorization transaction to the second website.
6. The user approves (or their software silently approves) a particular transaction type at the first website.
7. The user is given an approved access token (notice it’s no longer a request token).
8. The user gives the approved access token to the first website.
9. The first website gives the access token to the second website as proof of authentication on behalf of the user.
10. The second website lets the first website access their site on behalf of the user.
11. The user sees a successfully completed transaction occurring.
12. OAuth is not the first authentication/authorization system to work this way on behalf of the end-user. In fact, many authentication systems, notably Kerberos, work similarly. What is special about OAuth is its ability to work across the web and its wide adoption. It succeeded with adoption rates where previous attempts failed (for various reasons).

*What is OpenID?*

OpenID is a unified user identification method released as an open standard that essentially acts as a single user identification system that can be used across multiple websites.

# Authorization and Authentication flows

*What is the difference between authorization and authentication?*

Authentication is the process of proving that you are who you say you are and Authorization is the act of granting an authenticated party permission to do something.

*What is Authorization Code Flow?*

Authorization Code flow involves a two-step process, where the user validates himself against the authorization server by providing his own identity credentials. The Authorization Server validates the user credentials and provides with an Authorization Code.

*What is Authorization Code Flow with Proof Key for Code Exchange (PKCE)?*

The PKCE-enhanced Authorization Code Flow introduces a secret created by the calling application that can be verified by the authorization server; this secret is called the Code Verifier.

*What is Implicit Flow with Form Post?*

Implicit Flow with Form Post flow uses OIDC to implement web sign-in that is very similar to the way SAML and WS-Federation operates. The web app requests and obtains tokens through the front channel, without the need for secrets or extra backend calls. With this method, you don’t need to obtain, maintain, use, and protect a secret in your application.

*What is Client Credentials Flow?*

With machine-to-machine (M2M) applications, such as CLIs, daemons, or services running on  back-end, the system authenticates and authorizes the app rather than a user.

*What is Device Authorization Flow?*

With input-constrained devices that connect to the internet, rather than authenticate the user directly, the device asks the user to go to a link on their computer or smartphone and authorize the device. This avoids a poor user experience for devices that do not have an easy way to enter text. To do this, device apps use the Device Authorization Flow

*What is Resource Owner Password Flow?*

It requests that users provide credentials (username and password), typically using an interactive form. It's a highly trusted option that is not recommended.


### [_Go back to main page_](README.md)