## React Docs - Thinking in React

1. What is the single responsibility principle and how does it apply to components?

It is a principal where a React component should do only one thing and if it ends up growing it should be split into several subcomponents.

2. What does it mean to build a ‘static’ version of your application?
Once you have a static application, what do you need to add?

It's means to build a version of your app without interactivity. Once you have your static app you need to add state which will allow us to add interactivity.

3. What are the three questions you can ask to determine if something is state?
  
If it's passed in from a parent via props.  
If it doesn't change over time.  
If you can compute it based on any other state or props in the component.  

If the answer is yes, it's not state.

4. How can you identify where state needs to live?

You need to identify all components that will be using state to render something, then you will need a common owner component or a separate component higher in the hierarchy to own(contain) the state.

## Higher-Order Functions

1. What is a “higher-order function”?

Functions that operate on other functions, either by taking them as arguments or by returning them.

2. Explore the greaterThan function as defined in the reading. In your own words, what is line 2 of this function doing?

Creating an arrow function

3. Explain how either map or reduce operates, with regards to higher-order functions.

`array.map()` applies a function to each element in an array, transforming the given array into a new one with the returned values.

### [_Go back to main page_](README.md)