# nosql vs sql

*Five differences between SQL and NoSQL databases:*

- SQL databases are primarily called as Relational Databases (RDBMS); whereas NoSQL database are primarily called as non-relational or distributed database.
- SQL databases are table based databases whereas NoSQL databases are document based, key-value pairs, graph databases or wide-column stores.
- SQL databases have predefined schema whereas NoSQL databases have dynamic schema for unstructured data.
- SQL databases uses SQL ( structured query language ) for defining and manipulating the data, which is very powerful. In NoSQL database, queries are focused on collection of documents. Sometimes it is also called as UnQL (Unstructured Query Language).
- SQL databases are vertically scalable whereas the NoSQL databases are horizontally scalable. SQL databases are scaled by increasing the horse-power of the hardware. NoSQL databases are scaled by increasing the databases servers in the pool of resources to reduce the load.

*What kind of data is a good fit for an SQL database?*

SQL databases are a good fit for complex queries.

*Give a real world example.*

Any data that can be stored in a form of a table. For example, database of students with info on names, grades, addresses etc.

*What kind of data is a good fit a NoSQL database?*

Large data sets.

*Give a real world example.*

Foreign language dictionary.

*Which type of database is best for hierarchical data storage?*

NoSQL

*Which type of database is best for scalability?*

NoSQL

# sql vs nosql

*What does SQL stand for?*

Structured Query Language

*What is a relational database?*

It's a database that works with certain assumptions and supports SQL

*What type of structure does a relational database work with?*

Tables.

*What is a ‘schema’?*

It's requirements for data storage.

*What is a NoSQL database?*

It's a database that stores data in a format other than relational tables.

*How does it work?*



*What is inside of a Mongo database?*

The database has collections and documents.

*Which is more flexible - SQL or MongoDB? and why.*

NoSQL because there's no schemas.

*What is the disadvantage of a NoSQL database?*

Updating data regularly can be problematic.


### [_Go back to main page_](README.md)