## An Introduction to Node.js on sitepoint.com

*What is node.js?*

It's a program we can use to execute JavaScript on a local machine. In other words it's a AvaScript runtime.

*In your own words, what is Chrome’s V8 JavaScript Engine?*

It's an open-source Google Chrome engine that is enhanced with various features.

*What does it mean that node is a JavaScript runtime?*

It's an environment in which JavaScript runs.

*What is npm?*

World's largest software registry, it's also a software manager and installer.

*What version of node are you running on your machine?*

v14.17.6

*What version of npm are you running on your machine?*

6.14.15

*What command would you type to install a library/package called ‘jshint’?*

`npm install -g jshint`

*What is node used for?*

It's used to automate the processes of developing a modern JavaScript application and running JavaScript on the server. It can also be used as a script language.

## 6 Reasons for Pair Programming

*What are the 6 reasons for pair programming?*

Greater efficiency, engaged collaboration, learning from fellow programmers, development of social skills, job interview practice, work environment practice.

*In your experience, which of these reasons have you found most beneficial?*

For me it was engaged collaboration, learning from fellow programmers and development of social skills(that relates to work environment practice).

*How does pair programming work?*

There a different styles of pair programming but usually it involves the driver and the navigator. The driver is the person who is typing and managing code editor, version control, switching files etc.. The navigator verbaly guides the driver but doesn't type anything but rather thinking about the big picture while looking for typos and bugs.


### [_Go back to main page_](README.md)