## HTML5 STORAGE

What I will refer to as “HTML5 Storage” is a specification named Web Storage, which was at one time part of the HTML5 specification proper, but was split out into its own specification for uninteresting political reasons. Certain browser vendors also refer to it as “Local Storage” or “DOM Storage.” The naming situation is made even more complicated by some related, similarly-named, emerging standards that I’ll discuss later in this chapter.

So what is HTML5 Storage? Simply put, it’s a way for web pages to store named key/value pairs locally, within the client web browser. Like cookies, this data persists even after you navigate away from the web site, close your browser tab, exit your browser, or what have you. Unlike cookies, this data is never transmitted to the remote web server (unless you go out of your way to send it manually). Unlike all previous attempts at providing persistent local storage, it is implemented natively in web browsers, so it is available even when third-party browser plugins are not.

### Check for HTML5 Storage

``` javascript
function supports_html5_storage() {
  try {
    return 'localStorage' in window && window['localStorage'] !== null;
  } catch (e) {
    return false;
  }
}
```

Instead of writing this function yourself, you can use Modernizr to detect support for HTML5 Storage.

``` javascript
if (Modernizr.localstorage) {
  // window.localStorage is available!
} else {
  // no native support for HTML5 storage :(
  // maybe try dojox.storage or a third-party solution
}
```

## USING HTML5 STORAGE

HTML5 Storage is based on named key/value pairs. You store data based on a named key, then you can retrieve that data with the same key. The named key is a string. The data can be any type supported by JavaScript, including strings, Booleans, integers, or floats. However, the data is actually stored as a string. If you are storing and retrieving anything other than strings, you will need to use functions like `parseInt()` or `parseFloat()` to coerce your retrieved data into the expected JavaScript datatype.

``` javascript
interface Storage {
  getter any getItem(in DOMString key);
  setter creator void setItem(in DOMString key, in any data);
};
```

Calling `setItem()` with a named key that already exists will silently overwrite the previous value. Calling `getItem()` with a non-existent key will return null rather than throw an exception.

### From [diveinto.html5doctor.com](http://diveinto.html5doctor.com/storage.html)

### [_Go back to main page_](README.md)