# Web Scraping

## What is web scraping?

Web scraping is the process of extracting usable data from different webpages to be used for analysis, comparison, and many other purposes. The type of data that can be collected ranges from text, images, ratings, URLs, and more. Web scrapers extract this data by loading a URL and loading the HTML code for that page. Advanced web scrapers are capable of extracting CSS and JavaScript code from the webpage as well.  

## Legality

As long as the data you’re scraping does not require an account for access, isn’t blocked by a robots.txt file, and is publicly available, it’s considered fair game.  

## How does web scraping work?

Web scraping involves three steps:

Data collection: In this step, data is collected from webpages (typically with a web crawler)
Data parsing and transformation: This next step involves transforming the collected dataset into a format that can be used for further analysis (like a spreadsheet or JSON file)
Data storage: The last stage of web scraping involves storing the transformed data in a JSON, XML, or CSV file  

## What tools and libraries are used to scrape the web?

- Beautiful Soup: A popular Python library used to extract data from HTML and XML files
MechanicalSoup: Another Python library used to automate interactions on websites (like submitting forms)
- Scrapy: A high-speed, open-source web crawling and scraping framework
- Selenium: A suite of open-source automation tools that provides an API to write acceptance or functional tests
- Python Requests: The requests library allows users to send HTTP/1.1 requests without needing to attach query strings to URLs or form-encode POST data
- LXML: A tool used for processing XML and HTML in the Python language
- Urllib: A package used for opening URLs
- Pandas: Not typically used for scraping, but useful for data analysis, manipulation, and storage

 [Web scraping tutorial](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/python-web-scraping-tutorial/) 

From [www.educative.io](https://www.educative.io/blog/python-web-scraping-tutorial) 
