# Serverless Functions

Serverless is a cloud computing application development and execution model that enables developers to build and run application code without provisioning or managing servers or backend infrastructure.

Today every leading cloud service provider offers a serverless platform including Amazon Web Services (AWS Lambda), Microsoft Azure (Azure Functions), Google Cloud (Google Cloud Functions) and IBM Cloud (IBM Cloud Code Engine).

Function-as-a-service, or FaaS, is a cloud computing service that enables developers to run code or containers in response to specific events or requests, without specifying or managing the infrastructure required to run to code.

FaaS is the compute model central to serverless, and the two terms are often used interchangeably. But serverless is much more than FaaS. Serverless is an entire stack of services that can respond to specific events or requests, and scale to zero when no longer in use—and for which provisioning, management and billing are handled by the cloud provider and invisible to developers.

## Pros and cons of serverless

### Pros

- Improved developer productivity: As noted above, serverless enables development teams to focus on writing code, not managing infrastructure.
- Pay for execution only: The meter starts when the request is made, and ends when execution finishes.
- Develop in any language: Serverless is a polyglot environment, enabling developers to code in any language or framework—Java, Python, JavaScript, node.js
- Streamlined development/DevOps cycles. Serverless simplifies deployment and, in a larger sense, simplifies DevOps because developers don't spend time defining infrastructure required to integrate, test, deliver and deploy code builds into production.
- Cost-effective performance. For certain workloads—embarrassingly parallel processing, stream processing, certain data processing tasks—serverless computing can be both faster and more cost-effective than other forms of compute.
- Usage visibility. Serverless platforms provide near-total visibility into system and user times and can aggregate usage information systematically.

### Cons

- Unacceptable latency for certain applications: Because serverless architectures forgo ongoing processes in favor of scaling up and down to zero, they also sometimes need to start up from zero to serve a new request.
- Higher costs for stable or predictable workloads: Because serverless scales up and down on demand in response to workload, it offers significant cost savings for spiky workloads. But it does not offer the same savings for workloads characterized by predictable, steady or long-running processes
- Monitoring and debugging issues: These operational tasks are challenging in any distributed system, but serverless architecture (or microservices architecture, or a combination of the two) only exacerbates the complexity.
- Vendor lock-in: migrating code to a new cloud provider could prove challenging.

### [_Go back to main page_](README.md)