# Hash Table Dictionary:

### Hash table

A hash table is a data structure that is used to store keys/value pairs. It uses a hash function to compute an index into an array in which an element will be inserted or searched. By using a good hash function, hashing can work well. Under reasonable assumptions, the average time required to search for an element in a hash table is O(1).

### Hash

A hash is the result of some algorithm taking an incoming string and converting it into a value that could be used for either security or some other purpose. In the case of a hashtable, it is used to determine the index of the array. Basically, a hash code turns a key into an integer. It’s very important that hash codes are deterministic: their output is determined only by their input. Hash codes should never have randomness to them. The same key should always produce the same hash code.

### Bucket

A bucket is what is contained in each index of the array of the hashtable. Each index is a bucket. An index could potentially contain multiple key/value pairs if a collision occurs. Each Index of the array contain “buckets”. Each of these “buckets” holds one key/value pair combination. When there is no entry in a specific bucket, the buckets (each index of the array) all start null. The hash table starts each bucket empty and overwrites their value once a key generates a hashCode that corresponds with an index.

### Collision

A collision is what happens when more than one key gets hashed to the same location of the hashtable. A collision occurs when more than one key hashes to the same index in an array. As mentioned earlier, a “perfect hash” will never have any collisions. What would happen if two different keys resolved to be the same index of the array? This is called a collision. The hash map needs to be able to handle two keys resolving to the same index. Collisions are solved by changing the initial state of the buckets. Instead of starting them all as null we can initialize a LinkedList in each one! Now if two keys resolve to the same index in the array then their key/value pairs can be stored as a node in a linked list. Each index in the array is called a “bucket” because it can store multiple key/value pairs. Since different keys can lead to the same bucket it’s important to store the entire key/value pair in the bucket, not just the value. The key must be stored with the value! If only values were stored in buckets then it would be impossible to determine which value to return when a key led you to a bucket.



From/Full guide [codefellows.github.io](https://codefellows.github.io/common_curriculum/data_structures_and_algorithms/Code_401/class-30/resources/Hashtables.html)