# Python Iterators

Objects that support the __iter__ and __next__ dunder methods automatically work with for-in loops.

class called Repeater that can be iterated over with a for-in loop, like so:

```python
repeater = Repeater('Hello')
for item in repeater:
    print(item)
```

Like its name suggests, instances of this Repeater class will repeatedly return a single value when iterated over. So the above example code would print the string Hello to the console forever.

To start with the implementation we’ll define and flesh out the Repeater class first:

```python
class Repeater:
    def __init__(self, value):
        self.value = value

    def __iter__(self):
        return RepeaterIterator(self)
```

On first inspection, Repeater looks like a bog-standard Python class. But notice how it also includes the __iter__ dunder method.

What’s the RepeaterIterator object we’re creating and returning from __iter__? It’s a helper class we also need to define for our for-in iteration example to work:

```python
class RepeaterIterator:
    def __init__(self, source):
        self.source = source

    def __next__(self):
        return self.source.value
```

In the `__init__` method we link each RepeaterIterator instance to the Repeater object that created it. That way we can hold on to the “source” object that’s being iterated over.

In RepeaterIterator.`__next__`, we reach back into the “source” Repeater instance and return the value associated with it.

In this code example, Repeater and RepeaterIterator are working together to support Python’s iterator protocol. The two dunder methods we defined, __iter__ and __next__, are the key to making a Python object iterable.

From/Full guide [dbader.org](https://dbader.org/blog/python-iterators)
