# Classes and Objects

Python is an object oriented programming language.
Almost everything in Python is an object, with its properties and methods.
A Class is like an object constructor, or a "blueprint" for creating objects.

To create a class, use the keyword class:

```python
class MyClass:
  x = 5
```

Then we can use the class named MyClass to create objects:

```python
p1 = MyClass()
print(p1.x)
```

All classes have a function called `__init__()`, which is always executed when the class is being initiated.

Use the `__init__()` function to assign values to object properties, or other operations that are necessary to do when the object is being created:

```python
class Person:
  def __init__(self, name, age):
    self.name = name
    self.age = age

p1 = Person("John", 36)

print(p1.name)
print(p1.age)

```

The self parameter is a reference to the current instance of the class, and is used to access variables that belongs to the class.

It does not have to be named self , you can call it whatever you like, but it has to be the first parameter of any function in the class:

```python

class Person:
  def __init__(self, name, age):
    self.name = name
    self.age = age

  def myfunc(abc):
    print("Hello my name is " + abc.name)

p1 = Person("John", 36)
p1.myfunc()

```
From [w3schools.com](https://www.w3schools.com/python/python_classes.asp)


# Thinking Recursively

 A recursive function is a function defined in terms of itself via self-referential expressions.

This means that the function will continue to call itself and repeat its behavior until some condition is met to return a result. All recursive functions share a common structure made up of two parts: base case and recursive case.

```python

def factorial_recursive(n):
    # Base case: 1! = 1
    if n == 1:
        return 1

    # Recursive case: n! = n * (n-1)!
    else:
        return n * factorial_recursive(n-1)

```

Behind the scenes, each recursive call adds a stack frame (containing its execution context) to the call stack until we reach the base case. Then, the stack begins to unwind as each call returns its results:

A data structure is recursive if it can be deﬁned in terms of a smaller version of itself. A list is an example of a recursive data structure.

From [realpython.com](https://realpython.com/python-thinking-recursively/)

Personally for me, this video was very helpful to understand recursion [Recursion for Beginners: A Beginner's Guide to Recursion](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AfBqVVKg4GE)  
And as it says in the video, recursion is very important to understand but there's only a few type of problems that it can solve more efficient than iteration.

### [_Go back to main page_](README.md)