# React Context

## What is React context?

React context allows us to pass down and use (consume) data in whatever component we need in our React app without using props.
In other words, React context allows us to share data (state) across our components more easily.

## When should you use React context?

Data should be placed on React context that does not need to be updated often. You can think of React context as the equivalent of global variables for our React components.

## What problems does React context solve?

React context helps us avoid the problem of props drilling.
Props drilling is a term to describe when you pass props down multiple levels to a nested component, through components that don't need it.

## How do I use React context?

Context is an API that is built into React, starting from React version 16.

This means that we can create and use context directly by importing React in any React project.

There are four steps to using React context:

- Create context using the createContext method.
- Take your created context and wrap the context provider around your component tree.
- Put any value you like on your context provider using the value prop.
- Read that value within any component by using the context consumer.
  
## What is the useContext hook?

Another way of consuming context became available in React 16.8 with the arrival of React hooks. We can now consume context with the useContext hook.

Instead of using render props, we can pass the entire context object to React.useContext() to consume context at the top of our component.

```python
import React from 'react';

export const UserContext = React.createContext();

export default function App() {
  return (
    <UserContext.Provider value="Reed">
      <User />
    </UserContext.Provider>
  )
}

function User() {
  const value = React.useContext(UserContext);  
    
  return <h1>{value}</h1>;
}
```

## Does React context replace Redux?

Yes and no.
For many React beginners, Redux is a way of more easily passing around data. This is because Redux comes with React context itself.
However, if you are not also updating state, but merely passing it down your component tree, you do not need a global state management library like Redux.

From/Full guide [www.freecodecamp.org](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/react-context-for-beginners/)