# Django form handling process

Django's form handling uses all of the following techniques: the view gets a request, performs any actions required including reading data from the models, then generates and returns an HTML page (from a template, into which we pass a context containing the data to be displayed).  

The main things that Django's form handling does are:  
- Display the default form the first time it is requested by the user.
- Receive data from a submit request and bind it to the form.
- Clean and validate the data.
- If any data is invalid, re-display the form, this time with any user populated values and error messages for the problem fields.
- f all data is valid, perform required actions (such as save the data, send an email, return the result of a search, upload a file, and so on).
- Once all actions are complete, redirect the user to another page.

Django provides a number of tools and approaches to help you with the tasks detailed above. The most fundamental is the `Form` class, which simplifies both generation of form HTML and data cleaning/validation.

## Form

The Form class is the heart of Django's form handling system. It specifies the fields in the form, their layout, display widgets, labels, initial values, valid values, and (once validated) the error messages associated with invalid fields. The class also provides methods for rendering itself in templates using predefined formats (tables, lists, etc.) or for getting the value of any element (enabling fine-grained manual rendering).

## Declaring a Form

The declaration syntax for a Form is very similar to that for declaring a Model, and shares the same field types (and some similar parameters). This makes sense because in both cases we need to ensure that each field handles the right types of data, is constrained to valid data, and has a description for display/documentation.

Form data is stored in an application's forms.py file, inside the application directory. Create and open the file locallibrary/catalog/forms.py. To create a Form, we import the forms library, derive from the Form class, and declare the form's fields. A very basic form class for our library book renewal form is shown below — add this to your new file:

```python
from django import forms

class RenewBookForm(forms.Form):
    renewal_date = forms.DateField(help_text="Enter a date between now and 4 weeks (default 3).")
```

From/Full guide [developer.mozilla.org](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/Server-side/Django/Forms)