# Automation (Regex)

## What is Regex

Regular Expressions, often shortened as regex, are a sequence of characters used to check whether a pattern exists in a given text (string) or not.
In Python, regular expressions are supported by the re module.

```python
import re
```

With the `search` function, you scan through the given string/sequence, looking for the first location where the regular expression produces a match.
The `group` function returns the string matched by the re.  


## Wild Card Characters: Special Characters

`.`  - A period. Matches any single character except the newline character.

```python
re.search(r'Co.k.e', 'Cookie').group()

Cookie
```

`^` - A caret. Matches the start of the string. This is helpful if you want to make sure a document/sentence starts with certain characters.

```python
re.search(r'^Eat', "Eat cake!").group()

'Eat'
```

`$` - Matches the end of string.

```python
re.search(r'cake$', "Cake! Let's eat cake").group()

'cake'
```

`[abc]` - Matches a or b or c.  
`[a-zA-Z0-9]` - Matches any letter from (a to z) or (A to Z) or (0 to 9).
`\` - Backslash.

- If the character following the backslash is a recognized escape character, then the special meaning of the term is taken  
- Else if the character following the \ is not a recognized escape character, then the \ is treated like any other character and passed through  
- \ can be used in front of all the metacharacters to remove their special meaning  

`\w` - Lowercase 'w'. Matches any single letter, digit, or underscore.  
`\W` - Uppercase 'W'. Matches any character not part of \w (lowercase w).  
`\s` - Lowercase 's'. Matches a single whitespace character like: space, newline, tab, return.  
`\S` - Uppercase 'S'. Matches any character not part of \s (lowercase s).  
`\d` - Lowercase d. Matches decimal digit 0-9.  
`\D` - Uppercase d. Matches any character that is not a decimal digit.  
`\t` - Lowercase t. Matches tab.
`\n` - Lowercase n. Matches newline.
`\r` - Lowercase r. Matches return.
`\A` - Uppercase a. Matches only at the start of the string. Works across multiple lines as well.  
`\Z` - Uppercase z. Matches only at the end of the string.  
`\b` - Lowercase b. Matches only the beginning or end of the word.  

### Repetitions

`+` - Checks if the preceding character appears one or more times starting from that position.  
`*` - Checks if the preceding character appears zero or more times starting from that position.  
`?` - Checks if the preceding character appears exactly zero or one time starting from that position.  
`{x}` - Repeat exactly x number of times.  
`{x,}` - Repeat at least x times or more.  
`{x, y}` - Repeat at least x times but no more than y times.  

```python
re.search(r'\d{9,10}', '0987654321').group()

'0987654321'
```

[Regex tutorial](https://www.datacamp.com/tutorial/python-regular-expression-tutorial)

From [www.datacamp.com](https://www.datacamp.com/tutorial/python-regular-expression-tutorial) 

### [_Go back to main page_](README.md)