# What is Django?

Django is a high-level Python web framework that enables rapid development of secure and maintainable websites. Built by experienced developers, Django takes care of much of the hassle of web development, so you can focus on writing your app without needing to reinvent the wheel. It is free and open source, has a thriving and active community, great documentation, and many options for free and paid-for support.  
Django is "somewhat opinionated", and hence delivers the "best of both worlds". It provides a set of components to handle most web development tasks and one (or two) preferred ways to use them. However, Django's decoupled architecture means that you can usually pick and choose from a number of different options, or add support for completely new ones if desired.  

## How does Django work?

Django web applications typically group the code that handles each of these steps into separate files:
 - URLs: While it is possible to process requests from every single URL via a single function, it is much more maintainable to write a separate view function to handle each resource. A URL mapper is used to redirect HTTP requests to the appropriate view based on the request URL. The URL mapper can also match particular patterns of strings or digits that appear in a URL and pass these to a view function as data.
- View: A view is a request handler function, which receives HTTP requests and returns HTTP responses. Views access the data needed to satisfy requests via models, and delegate the formatting of the response to templates.
- Models: Models are Python objects that define the structure of an application's data, and provide mechanisms to manage (add, modify, delete) and query records in the database.
- Templates: A template is a text file defining the structure or layout of a file (such as an HTML page), with placeholders used to represent actual content. A view can dynamically create an HTML page using an HTML template, populating it with data from a model. A template can be used to define the structure of any type of file; it doesn't have to be HTML!

## What else can you do with Django?

- Forms: HTML Forms are used to collect user data for processing on the server. Django simplifies form creation, validation, and processing.
- User authentication and permissions: Django includes a robust user authentication and permission system that has been built with security in mind.
- Caching: Creating content dynamically is much more computationally intensive (and slow) than serving static content. Django provides flexible caching so that you can store all or part of a rendered page so that it doesn't get re-rendered except when necessary.
- Administration site: The Django administration site is included by default when you create an app using the basic skeleton. It makes it trivially easy to provide an admin page for site administrators to create, edit, and view any data models in your site.
- Serializing data: Django makes it easy to serialize and serve your data as XML or JSON. This can be useful when creating a web service (a website that purely serves data to be consumed by other applications or sites, and doesn't display anything itself), or when creating a website in which the client-side code handles all the rendering of data.

From [developer.mozilla.org](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/Server-side/Django/Introduction) 

### [_Go back to main page_](README.md)