
## In Tests We Trust - TDD with Python

This article was about TDD which stands for Test Driven Development. TDD is a design philosophy that is based on developing tests first.
A convention used for the test structure is Arrange, Act and Assert also known as AAA.  
* Arrange: you need to organize the data needed to execute that piece of code (input);  
* Act: here you will execute the code being tested (exercise the behaviour);  
* Assert: after executing the code, you will check if the result (output) is the same as you were expecting.

After that you can test code using "The cycle" which is made by 3 steps:

* Write a unit test and make it fail 
* Write the feature and make the test pass
* Refactor the code 

My takeaway from this article is that if you are implementing TDD your code is going to be more reliable and you will have to think about software design first and foremost.

From [Code Like A Girl](https://code.likeagirl.io/in-tests-we-trust-tdd-with-python-af69f47e6932)

## If name equals main

### What does the if __name__ == “__main__”: do?

Before executing code, Python interpreter reads source file and define few special variables/global variables. 
If the python interpreter is running that module (the source file) as the main program, it sets the special __name__ variable to have a value “__main__”. If this file is being imported from another module, __name__ will be set to the module’s name. Module’s name is available as value to __name__ global variable. 

A module is a file containing Python definitions and statements. The file name is the module name with the suffix .py appended.

It's mostly used to run the code only if the file was run directly and not imported.

From [GeeksforGeeks](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/what-does-the-if-__name__-__main__-do/)

## Recursion

Recursion is a process in which a function calls itself directly of indirectly until a base case is met.
Normally recursive functions have 2 parts: base case and recursive structure.  
Base case is the smallest version of the problem for which we already know the solution or a terminating condition where a function can return the result immediately.  
Recursive structure is finding the solution to a problem via the solution of its smaller sub-problems. Here function must call itself to break the current problem down to a simpler level.  
Overall it's a pretty complex topic and I will need to study it more in order to better understand it.
### [_Go back to main page_](README.md)
