# Readings: Ten Thousand Game 

## How to use Random Module

The random module provides access to functions that support many operations. Perhaps the most important thing is that it allows you to generate random numbers.  

### Random functions

`Randint`

For random integer we can use the `randint` function `Randint` accepts two parameters: a lowest and a highest number. Generate integers between 1,5. The first value should be less than the second.

```python
import random
print random.randint(0, 5)
# This will output either 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5.
```

`Random`

If you want a larger number, you can multiply it.

For example, a random number between 0 and 100:

```python
import random
random.random() * 100
```

`Choice`

Generate a random value from the sequence.

```python
import random
myList = [2, 109, False, 10, "Lorem", 482, "Ipsum"]
random.choice(myList)
```

`Shuffle`

The shuffle function, shuffles the elements in list in place, so they are in a random order.

```python
from random import shuffle
x = [[i] for i in range(10)]
shuffle(x)

# print x  gives  [[9], [2], [7], [0], [4], [5], [3], [1], [8], [6]]
# of course your results will vary
```

`Randrange`

Generate a randomly selected element from range(start, stop, step)

```python
random.randrange(start, stop[, step])
import random
for i in range(3):
    print random.randrange(0, 101, 5)
```

From [pythonforbeginners.com](https://www.pythonforbeginners.com/random/how-to-use-the-random-module-in-python)

## What is Risk Analysis

Risk analysis is the process of identifying the risks in applications or software that you built and prioritizing them to test. In any software, using risk analysis at the beginning of a project highlights the potential problem areas. After knowing about the risk areas, it helps the developers and managers to mitigate the risks.  

### Risk magnitude indicators:  

`High`: means the effect of the risk would be very high and non-tolerable. The company might face loss.

`Medium`: it is tolerable but not desirable. The company may suffer financially but there is a limited risk.

`Low`: it is tolerable. There lies little or no external exposure or no financial loss.

### Risk Identification

`Business Risks`: This risk is the most common risk associated with our topic. It is the risk that may come from your company or your customer, not from your project.

`Testing Risks`: You should be well acquainted with the platform you are working on, along with the software testing tools being used.

`Premature Release Risk`: a fair amount of knowledge to analyze the risk associated with releasing unsatisfactory or untested software is required

`Software Risks`: You should be well versed with the risks associated with the software development process.

### Risk Assessment

`Effect` – To assess risk by Effect. In case you identify a condition, event or action and try to determine its impact.

`Cause` – To assess risk by Cause is opposite of by Effect. Initialize scanning the problem and reach to the point that could be the most probable reason behind that.

`Likelihood` – To assess risk by Likelihood is to say that there is a probability that a requirement won’t be satisfied.

From [edureka.co](https://www.edureka.co/blog/risk-analysis-in-software-testing/)

## Test Coverage

Test coverage is defined as a metric in Software Testing that measures the amount of testing performed by a set of test. In simple terms, it is a technique to ensure that your tests are testing your code or how much of your code you exercised by running the test.  

### Formula to calculate Test Coverage

To calculate test coverage, you need to follow the below-given steps:

Step 1: The total lines of code in the piece of software quality you are testing

Step 2: The number of lines of code all test cases currently execute

Now, you need to find (X divided by Y) multiplied by 100. The result of this calculation is your test coverage %.

For example:

If the number of lines of code in a system component is 500 and the number of lines executed across all existing test cases is 50, then your test coverage is:

`(50 / 500) * 100 = 10%`


### Drawbacks:

Most of the tasks in the test coverage manual as there are no tools to automate. Therefore, it takes lots of effort to analyze the requirements and create test cases.
Test coverage allows you to count features and then measure against several tests. However, there is always space for judgment errors.

From [guru99.com](https://www.guru99.com/test-coverage-in-software-testing.html)

### [_Go back to main page_](README.md)