# Ten Thousand 2

In programming, the scope of a name defines the area of a program in which you can unambiguously access that name, such as variables, functions, objects, and so on. A name will only be visible to and accessible by the code in its scope.

## The global Statement

`global` statement is used to modify the behavior of local variables that you want to be treated as global variables instead of reassigning them outside of global scope.

The statement consists of the global keyword followed by one or more names separated by commas.  

 ```python

global counter  # Declare counter as global
```

With the statement global counter, you’re telling Python to look in the global scope for the name `counter`.  

Note: The use of global is considered bad practice in general.  

You can use `global` statement inside of a function, for example, which will create a global variable from the inner scope of that function. This is called a lazy global variable.

## The nonlocal Statement

Similarly to global names, `nonlocal` names can be accessed from inner functions, but not assigned or updated. If you want to modify them, then you need to use a `nonlocal` statement. With a `nonlocal` statement, you can define a list of names that are going to be treated as `nonlocal`.

The nonlocal statement consists of the nonlocal keyword followed by one or more names separated by commas. These names will refer to the same names in the enclosing Python scope.

```python

>>> def func():
...     var = 100  # A nonlocal variable
...     def nested():
...         nonlocal var  # Declare var as nonlocal
...         var += 100
...
...     nested()
...     print(var)
...
>>> func()
200
```

With the statement nonlocal var, you tell Python that you’ll be modifying var inside nested(). Then, you increment var using an augmented assignment operation. This change is reflected in the nonlocal name var, which now has a value of 200.

Unlike global, you can’t use nonlocal outside of a nested or enclosed function. To be more precise, you can’t use a nonlocal statement in either the global scope or in a local scope.

From [realpython.com](https://realpython.com/python-scope-legb-rule/#the-global-statement)

### [_Go back to main page_](README.md)