# Next.js: The React Framework

Next.js provides a solution to all of the following problems:

- Code has to be bundled using a bundler like webpack and transformed using a compiler like Babel.
- You need to do production optimizations such as code splitting.
- You might want to statically pre-render some pages for performance and SEO. You might also want to use server-side rendering or client-side rendering.
- You might have to write some server-side code to connect your React app to your data store.

Next.js aims to have best-in-class developer experience and many built-in features, such as:

- An intuitive page-based routing system (with support for dynamic routes)
- Pre-rendering, both static generation (SSG) and server-side rendering (SSR) are supported on a per-page basis
- Automatic code splitting for faster page loads
- Client-side routing with optimized prefetching
- Built-in CSS and Sass support, and support for any CSS-in-JS library
- Development environment with Fast Refresh support
- API routes to build API endpoints with Serverless Functions
- Fully extendable

Next.js is used in tens of thousands of production-facing websites and web applications, including many of the world's largest brands.

## Setup 

If you don’t have Node.js installed, install it from [here](https://nodejs.org/en/). You’ll need Node.js version 10.13 or later.

## Create a Next.js app

To create a Next.js app, open your terminal, cd into the directory you’d like to create the app in, and run the following command:

`npx create-next-app nextjs-blog --use-npm`

## Run the development server

You now have a new directory called nextjs-blog. Let’s cd into it:

`cd nextjs-blog`

Then, run the following command:

`npm run dev`

This starts your Next.js app’s "development server" on port 3000.

From/Full guide [nextjs.org](https://nextjs.org/learn/basics/create-nextjs-app)