# Next.js - Dynamic Routes

Instead of creating files for all pages, next.js is a JavaScript-based React framework that allows you to create different routes and work with the query data to dynamically create pages. That’s the phenomenon of dynamic routing in next.js.

Next.js serves dynamic content based on a dynamic URL that is created within the brackets [] syntax. What happens is that you create a folder and place a file with open and closing brackets within its name. It will then route all the requests to the internal file hence substituting the value inside the brackets whenever needed.

For example: `/pages/profile/[username].js`

This folder structure will handle all the dynamic URLs under the /profile/ route. [username].js means that any dynamic property which is our username, in this case, is put inside the [username].js parameter of the query property of the router.

## Router in Next.js

The router is one of the libraries in next.js which can be imported via the following command:

```python
import { useRouter } from 'next/router'
```

This means that whenever you need to access the router object inside any function component in your next.js app, you do it via using the useRouter hook. Once this is done, you start the router object via:

```python
const router = useRouter();
```

Next, create a new folder called profile inside the pages directory. And finally a [username].js file inside the profile folder.

The results tell that username resides inside the query and to access the results dynamically replace the [username].js file with the following code:

```python
import { useRouter } from 'next/router';

const Profile = () => {
  const router = useRouter();
  const { username } = router.query;

  return (
    <>
      <h1>Profile Name: {username}</h1>
    </>
  );
};

export default Profile;
```

This time we’ve defined const{ username }= router.query; which dynamically accesses the query part of the router object and gets displayed at the front-end

From/Full guide [maedahbatool.com](https://maedahbatool.com/understanding-dynamic-routing-and-api-routes-in-next-js/#:~:text=Instead%20of%20creating%20files%20for%20all%20pages%2C%20next.js,with%20open%20and%20closing%20brackets%20within%20its%20name.)