# Model Overview

Django web applications access and manage data through Python objects referred to as models. Models define the structure of stored data, including the field types and possibly also their maximum size, default values, selection list options, help text for documentation, label text for forms, etc. The definition of the model is independent of the underlying database — you can choose one of several as part of your project settings. Once you've chosen what database you want to use, you don't need to talk to it directly at all — you just write your model structure and other code, and Django handles all the dirty work of communicating with the database for you.

## Model definition

```python
from django.db import models
from django.urls import reverse

class MyModelName(models.Model):
    """A typical class defining a model, derived from the Model class."""

    # Fields
    my_field_name = models.CharField(max_length=20, help_text='Enter field documentation')
    # …

    # Metadata
    class Meta:
        ordering = ['-my_field_name']

    # Methods
    def get_absolute_url(self):
        """Returns the URL to access a particular instance of MyModelName."""
        return reverse('model-detail-view', args=[str(self.id)])

    def __str__(self):
        """String for representing the MyModelName object (in Admin site etc.)."""
        return self.my_field_name
```

## Fields

A model can have an arbitrary number of fields, of any type — each one represents a column of data that we want to store in one of our database tables. Each database record (row) will consist of one of each field value.

From [developer.mozilla.org](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/Server-side/Django/Models) 

# Django admin site

The Django admin application can use your models to automatically build a site area that you can use to create, view, update, and delete records. All the configuration required to include the admin application in your website was done automatically when you created the skeleton project. As a result, all you must do to add your models to the admin application is to register them.

## Registering models

First, open admin.py in the catalog application (/locallibrary/catalog/admin.py).

```python
from django.contrib import admin
from .models import Author, Genre, Book, BookInstance

admin.site.register(Book)
admin.site.register(Author)
admin.site.register(Genre)
admin.site.register(BookInstance)
```

## Creating a superuser

In order to log into the admin site, we need a user account with Staff status enabled. In order to view and create records we also need this user to have permissions to manage all our objects. You can create a "superuser" account that has full access to the site and all needed permissions using manage.py.

```python
python3 manage.py createsuperuser
```

Once this command completes a new superuser will have been added to the database. Now restart the development server so we can test the login.

## Logging in and using the site

To login to the site, open the /admin URL (e.g. http://127.0.0.1:8000/admin) and enter your new superuser userid and password credentials (you'll be redirected to the login page, and then back to the /admin URL after you've entered your details).

From [developer.mozilla.org](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/Server-side/Django/Admin_site)

### [_Go back to main page_](README.md)