# Dunder Methods

In Python, special methods are a set of predefined methods you can use to enrich your classes. They are easy to recognize because they start and end with double underscores, for example `__init__` or `__str__`.  
Dunder methods let you emulate the behavior of built-in types. For example, to get the length of a string you can call `len('string')`.

In python, everything is an object and all objects have built in dunder methods. We can easily check them by running `dir()` command.

```python
>>> dir('a')
['__add__',
...
'__eq__',    
'__format__',
'__ge__',    
'__getattribute__',
'__getitem__',
'__getnewargs__',
'__gt__',    
...]
```

## Callable Python Objects: `__call__`

You can make an object callable like a regular function by adding the __call__ dunder method.  

```python
class Account:
    # ... (see above)

    def __call__(self):
        print('Start amount: {}'.format(self.amount))
        print('Transactions: ')
        for transaction in self:
            print(transaction)
        print('\nBalance: {}'.format(self.balance))

```

Now we can call our class instance and get an account statement with an overview of all transactions and the current balance:

```python
 acc = Account('bob', 10)
 acc.add_transaction(20)
 acc.add_transaction(-10)
 acc.add_transaction(50)
 acc.add_transaction(-20)
 acc.add_transaction(30)

>>> acc()
Start amount: 10
Transactions:
20
-10
50
-20
30
Balance: 80

```

From [dbader.org](https://dbader.org/blog/python-dunder-methods)

# Statistics - Probability

*What is probability?*  
At the most basic level, probability seeks to answer the question, “What is the chance of an event happening?” An event is some outcome of interest.

To calculate the probability of an event occurring, we count how many times are event of interest can occur. By looking at the events that can occur, probability gives us a framework for making predictions about how often events will happen. However, even though it seems obvious, if we actually try to toss some coins, we’re likely to get an abnormally high or low counts of heads every once in a while. We can use statistics to calculate probabilities based on observations from the real world and check how it compares to the ideal.



### [_Go back to main page_](README.md)