# Thinking in React

## Break The UI Into A Component Hierarchy

The first thing you’ll want to do is to draw boxes around every component (and subcomponent) in the mock and give them all names. If you’re working with a designer, they may have already done this, so go talk to them! Their Photoshop layer names may end up being the names of your React components.

But how do you know what should be its own component? Use the same techniques for deciding if you should create a new function or object. One such technique is the single responsibility principle, that is, a component should ideally only do one thing. If it ends up growing, it should be decomposed into smaller subcomponents.

## Build A Static Version in React

Now that you have your component hierarchy, it’s time to implement your app. The easiest way is to build a version that takes your data model and renders the UI but has no interactivity.

To build a static version of your app that renders your data model, you’ll want to build components that reuse other components and pass data using props.

You can build top-down or bottom-up. it’s usually easier to go top-down, and on larger projects, it’s easier to go bottom-up and write tests as you build.

## Identify The Minimal (but complete) Representation Of UI State

To make your UI interactive, you need to be able to trigger changes to your underlying data model. React achieves this with state.

To build your app correctly, you first need to think of the minimal set of mutable state that your app needs. The key here is DRY: Don’t Repeat Yourself.

## Identify Where Your State Should Live

This is often the most challenging part. For each piece of state in your application:

- Identify every component that renders something based on that state.
- Find a common owner component (a single component above all the components that need the state in the hierarchy).
- Either the common owner or another component higher up in the hierarchy should own the state.
- If you can’t find a component where it makes sense to own the state, create a new component solely for holding the state and add it somewhere in the hierarchy above the common owner component.

From/Full guide [reactjs.org](https://reactjs.org/docs/thinking-in-react.html)

React guide [ui.dev](https://ui.dev/classic-react)