# API Deployment

## Configuring Django Settings: Best Practices

There is no built-in universal way to configure Django settings without hardcoding them. But books, open-source and work projects provide a lot of recommendations and approaches on how to do it best. Let’s take a brief look at the most popular ones to examine their weaknesses and strengths.

### settings_local.py

This is the oldest method. I used it when I was configuring a Django project on a production server for the first time. I saw a lot of people use it back in the day, and I still see it now.
The basic idea of this method is to extend all environment-specific settings in the settings_local.py file, which is ignored by VCS. Here’s an example:

Pros:  
Secrets not in VCS.  
Cons:  
settings_local.py is not in VCS, so you can lose some of your Django environment settings.  
The Django settings file is a Python code, so settings_local.py can have some non-obvious logic.  
You need to have settings_local.example (in VCS) to share the default Django configurations for developers.  

### Separate settings file for each environment

This is an extension of the previous approach. It allows you to keep all configurations in VCS and to share default settings between developers.

To specify for a project you run which Django configuration to use, you need to set an additional parameter:

```python
python manage.py runserver --settings=settings.local
```

Pros:  
All environments are in VCS.  
It’s easy to share settings between developers.  
Cons:  
You need to find a way to handle secret passwords and tokens.  
“Inheritance” of settings can be hard to trace and maintain.  

### Environment variables

The simplest way is using Python os.environ but it has several issues:

You need to handle KeyError exceptions.  
You need to convert types manually (see DATABASE_PORT usage).  

Pros:  
Configuration is separated from code.  
Environment parity – you have the same code for all environments.  
No inheritance in settings, and cleaner and more consistent code.  
There is a theoretical grounding for using environment variables – 12 Factors.  
Cons:  
You need to handle sharing default config between developers.  

## django-environ

This app gives a well-functioning API for reading values from environment variables or text files, handful type conversion, etc. Let’s look at some examples.

`settings.py`

```python
import environ


root = environ.Path(__file__) - 3  # get root of the project
env = environ.Env()
environ.Env.read_env()  # reading .env file

SITE_ROOT = root()

DEBUG = env.bool('DEBUG', default=False)
TEMPLATE_DEBUG = DEBUG

DATABASES = {'default': env.db('DATABASE_URL')}

public_root = root.path('public/')
MEDIA_ROOT = public_root('media')
MEDIA_URL = env.str('MEDIA_URL', default='media/')
STATIC_ROOT = public_root('static')
STATIC_URL = env.str('STATIC_URL', default='static/')

SECRET_KEY = env.str('SECRET_KEY')

CACHES = {'default': env.cache('REDIS_CACHE_URL')}
```

`.env`

```python
DEBUG=True
DATABASE_URL=postgres://user:password@db.example.com:5432/production_db?sslmode=require
REDIS_CACHE_URL=redis://user:password@cache.example.com:6379/1
SECRET_KEY=Some-Autogenerated-Secret-Key
```

From/Full guide [djangostars.com](https://djangostars.com/blog/configuring-django-settings-best-practices/)