## Read & Write Files in Python

A file is a set of bytes used to store data, the bytes are translated into binary format of 1 and 0. Usually files are composed of three parts: header, data and end of file(eof). The data section of the file represents information based on the extension: .txt means text, .jpg means image etc..

To open a file in python use the `open()` built in function. It takes a single required argument that is the path to the file. The `open()` function returns the file object.

``` python
file = open("hello_world.txt")
```

If you open a file it's your responsibility to properly close it. It can be done in a few ways but the preferred way is `with` statement:

``` python
with open("hello_world.txt") as reader:
  your code goes here
```

The with statement automatically takes care of closing the file once it leaves the with block, even in cases of error.

The `open()` function has a second positional argument `mode`. It's a string of one character that represents what you want to do with the file:  

``` python
with open("hello_world.txt", "r") as reader:
  your code goes here
```

`r` - open for reading(default)  
`w` - open for writing, truncating the file  
`rb` or `wb` - open in binary mode  

There are 3 categories of file objects:

* text files - open() will return a `TextIOWrapper` file object
* buffered binary files - open() will return either a `BufferedReader` or `BufferedWriter` file object
* raw binary files - open() will return a `FileIO` file object

### Reading Opened Files

Once you’ve opened up a file, you’ll want to read or write to the file. There are multiple methods that can be called on a file object:

`.read(size=-1)` - This reads from the file based on the number of size bytes. If no argument is passed or None or -1 is passed, then the entire file is read.  
`.readline(size=-1)` - This reads at most size number of characters from the line. This continues to the end of the line and then wraps back around. If no argument is passed or None or -1 is passed, then the entire line (or rest of the line) is read.  
`.readlines()` - This reads the remaining lines from the file object and returns them as a list.

``` python
with open("hello_world.txt") as reader:
  print(reader.read())
```

### Writing Opened Files

`.write(string)` - 	This writes the string to the file.  
`.writelines(seq)` - This writes the sequence to the file. No line endings are appended to each sequence item. It’s up to you to add the appropriate line ending(s).  

``` python
with open("hello_world.txt") as writer:
  writer.write("hello world")
```

### Working With Two Files at the Same Time

``` python
read_path = 'dog_breeds.txt'
write_path = 'dog_breeds_reversed.txt'
with open(read_path, 'r') as reader, open(write_path, 'w') as writer:
    dog_breeds = reader.readlines()
    writer.writelines(reversed(dog_breeds))
```

From [realpython.com](https://realpython.com/read-write-files-python/)

## Exceptions in Python

A Python program terminates as soon as it encounters an error. In Python, an error can be a syntax error or an exception. Syntax errors occur when the parser detects an incorrect statement. An exception error occurs whenever syntactically correct Python code results in an error. The last line of the message indicated what type of exception error you ran into.

```python
ZeroDivisionError: integer division or modulo by zero
```

We can use raise to throw an exception if a condition occurs. The statement can be complemented with a custom exception.

```python
x = 10
if x > 5:
    raise Exception('x should not exceed 5. The value of x was: {}'.format(x))
```

### The `AssertionError` Exception

We can also start by making an assertion in Python. We assert that a certain condition is met. If this condition turns out to be True, then the program can continue. If the condition turns out to be False, you can have the program throw an AssertionError exception.

### The `try` and `except` Block

The try and except block in Python is used to catch and handle exceptions. Python executes code following the try statement as a “normal” part of the program. The code that follows the except statement is the program’s response to any exceptions in the preceding try clause.

```python
try:
    with open('file.log') as file:
        read_data = file.read()
except:
    print('Could not open file.log')
```

### The `else` Clause

In Python, using the else statement, you can instruct a program to execute a certain block of code only in the absence of exceptions.

```python
try:
    linux_interaction()
except AssertionError as error:
    print(error)
else:
    print('Executing the else clause.')
```

### Cleaning Up After Using `finally`

`finally` enables you to execute sections of code that should always run, with or without any previously encountered exceptions.

```python
try:
    linux_interaction()
except AssertionError as error:
    print(error)
else:
    try:
        with open('file.log') as file:
            read_data = file.read()
    except FileNotFoundError as fnf_error:
        print(fnf_error)
finally:
    print('Cleaning up, irrespective of any exceptions.')
```

From [realpython.com](https://realpython.com/python-exceptions/)

### [_Go back to main page_](README.md)