# What is Jupyter Lab

JupyterLab is a next-generation web-based user interface for Project Jupyter that enables you to work with documents and activities such as Jupyter notebooks, text editors, terminals, and custom components in a flexible, integrated, and extensible manner. You can arrange multiple documents and activities side by side in the work area using tabs and splitters. Documents and activities integrate with each other, enabling new workflows for interactive computing.  

JupyterLab also offers a unified model for viewing and handling data formats. JupyterLab understands many file formats (images, CSV, JSON, Markdown, PDF, Vega, Vega-Lite, etc.) and can also display rich kernel output in these formats. See File and Output Formats for more information.

It has 2 modes `command` and `edit`

Cells have 2 formats: `markdown`(m) and `code`(y)

From [jupyterlab.readthedocs.io](https://jupyterlab.readthedocs.io/en/stable/getting_started/overview.html)

# What is NumPy

NumPy is a commonly used Python data analysis package. By using NumPy, you can speed up your workflow, and interface with other packages in the Python ecosystem, like scikit-learn, that use NumPy under the hood.

With NumPy, we work with multidimensional arrays.By specifying a row number and a column number, we’re able to extract an element from a matrix.

In a NumPy array, the number of dimensions is called the rank, and each dimension is called an axis. So the rows are the first axis, and the columns are the second axis.

## Creating A NumPy Array

We can create a NumPy array using the numpy.array function. If we pass in a list of lists, it will automatically create a NumPy array with the same number of rows and columns.

We can check the number of rows and columns in our data using the `shape` property of NumPy arrays

## Using NumPy To Read In Files

It’s possible to use NumPy to directly read csv or other files into arrays. We can do this using the `numpy.genfromtxt` function.

```python
wines = np.genfromtxt("winequality-red.csv", delimiter=";", skip_header=1)
```

Since we’re working with a 2-dimensional array in NumPy, we specify 2 indexes to retrieve an element. The first index is the row, or axis 1, index, and the second index is the column, or axis 2, index.

## NumPy Array Operations

Single Array Math
If you do any of the basic mathematical operations (/, *, -, +, ^) with an array and a value, it will apply the operation to each of the elements in the array.

```python
wines[:,11] + 10
```

Note that the above operation won’t change the wines array — it will return a new 1-dimensional array where 10 has been added to each element in the quality column of wines.

If we instead did +=, we’d modify the array in place

From [www.dataquest.io](https://www.dataquest.io/blog/numpy-tutorial-python/)

### [_Go back to main page_](README.md)