# A Beginner's Guide to Docker

Docker is a way to isolate and run entire applications. With Docker it doesn’t matter if you are using a Mac, Windows, or Linux computer anymore. The entire development environment is isolated: programming language, software packages, databases, and more.

With Docker we now longer have to mess around with virtual environments. We can faithfully reproduce a production environment locally. And Docker can be shared among team members so everyone is working on the same setup. Wins all around.

However, the downside is complexity.

## Linux Containers

Docker is really just Linux containers which are a type of virtualization.
If you rent space on a cloud provider like AWS they are typically not providing you with a dedicated piece of hardware. Instead you are probably sharing a physical server with hundreds or even thousands of other clients.
The downside to a virtual machine is size and speed.
In recent years Linux containers, also known as “containerization,” has become increasingly popular. For most applications, a virtual machine provides far more resources than are needed and a container is more than sufficient.

This, fundamentally, is what Docker is. A way to implement Linux containers.

## Containers vs Virtual Environments

Virtual environments are used to isolate Python software packages locally. We can create an isolated box for individual projects so one can use Python 2.7 and Django 1.5 while another can use Python 3.5 and Django 2.1 on the same computer. Virtual environments are great.

But…virtual environments can only isolate Python packages. They still rely on a global, system-level installation of Python albeit they can refer to the proper version. So when we use Python 2.7 in a project, we’re pointing to an installation of Python 2.7 on the computer itself, not actually within the virtual environment.

Also we can’t run a production database or other services within virtual environments so compared to Docker containers they are far more limited.

## Install Docker

To install Docker we need to download the desktop app on our computer and create a free account. The initial download of Docker might take some time to download.

Once Docker is done installing we can confirm the correct version is running.

```python
> docker --version
Docker version 19.03.5, build 633a0ea

```

Docker Compose is an additional tool that is automatically included with Mac and Windows downloads of Docker. However if you are on Linux, you will need to add it manually. You can do this by running the command `sudo pip install docker-compose` after your Docker installation is complete.

```python
> docker-compose --version
docker-compose version 1.24.1, build 4667896b
```

To confirm Docker installed correctly we can run our first command `docker run hello-world`. This will download an official image and then run the container.

From/Full guide [wsvincent.com](https://wsvincent.com/beginners-guide-to-docker/)
