# What is JSON Web Token?

JSON Web Token (JWT) is an open standard (RFC 7519) that defines a compact and self-contained way for securely transmitting information between parties as a JSON object. This information can be verified and trusted because it is digitally signed. JWTs can be signed using a secret (with the HMAC algorithm) or a public/private key pair using RSA or ECDSA.
JSON Web Tokens are useful fot authorization and information exchange.

## What is the JSON Web Token structure?

In its compact form, JSON Web Tokens consist of three parts separated by dots (.), which are:

- Header
- Payload
- Signature
Therefore, a JWT typically looks like the following.

`xxxxx.yyyyy.zzzzz`
or  
`header.payload.signature`

### Header

The header typically consists of two parts: the type of the token, which is JWT, and the signing algorithm being used, such as HMAC SHA256 or RSA.

```python
{
  "alg": "HS256",
  "typ": "JWT"
}
```

Then, this JSON is Base64Url encoded to form the first part of the JWT.

### Payload

The second part of the token is the payload, which contains the claims. Claims are statements about an entity (typically, the user) and additional data. There are three types of claims: registered, public, and private claims.

```python
{
  "sub": "1234567890",
  "name": "John Doe",
  "admin": true
}
```

### Signature

To create the signature part you have to take the encoded header, the encoded payload, a secret, the algorithm specified in the header, and sign that.

For example if you want to use the HMAC SHA256 algorithm, the signature will be created in the following way:

```python
HMACSHA256(
  base64UrlEncode(header) + "." +
  base64UrlEncode(payload),
  secret)
```

The signature is used to verify the message wasn't changed along the way, and, in the case of tokens signed with a private key, it can also verify that the sender of the JWT is who it says it is.

The following shows a JWT that has the previous header and payload encoded, and it is signed with a secret.

```python
eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJzdWIiOiIxMjM0NTY3ODkwIiwibmFtZSI6IkpvaG4gRG9lIiwiaWF0IjoxNTE2MjM5MDIyfQ.SflKxwRJSMeKKF2QT4fwpMeJf36POk6yJV_adQssw5c
```

From/Full guide [jwt.io](https://jwt.io/introduction/)

JWT Authentication with Django REST Framework guide [simpleisbetterthancomplex.com](https://simpleisbetterthancomplex.com/tutorial/2018/12/19/how-to-use-jwt-authentication-with-django-rest-framework.html)

Django production server [vsupalov.com](https://vsupalov.com/django-runserver-in-production/)