# What Google Learned From Its Quest to Build the Perfect Team

The article starts with the story of Julia Rozovsky, a researcher who was accepted into Yale School of Management. Julia tells us about her not so good experience with the study group that she was assigned to in school and about her positive experience with a different group that was doing essentially the same thing. Form there a question arises: what makes one group more successful and productive than the other? This becomes the main topic of the article.

The article goes on with information about the importance of collaborative environment and how modern work becomes more and more team based because studies show that groups tend to innovate faster, see mistakes more quickly and find better solutions to problems. Studies also show that people working in teams tend to achieve better results and report higher job satisfaction.

In 2012 Google embarked on an initiative — code-named Project Aristotle — to study hundreds of Google’s teams and figure out why some stumbled while others soared. Dubey, a leader of the project, gathered some of the company’s best statisticians, organizational psychologists, sociologists and engineers. Julia Rozovsky also ended up being part of the project. Researchers began by reviewing a half-century of academic studies looking at how teams worked. Were the best teams made up of people with similar interests? Or did it matter more whether everyone was motivated by the same kinds of rewards? Based on those studies, the researchers scrutinized the composition of groups inside Google: How often did teammates socialize outside the office? Did they have the same hobbies? Were their educational backgrounds similar? Was it better for all teammates to be outgoing or for all of them to be shy? They drew diagrams showing which teams had overlapping memberships and which groups had exceeded their departments’ goals. They studied how long teams stuck together and if gender balance seemed to have an impact on a team’s success but no matter how researchers arranged the data, though, it was almost impossible to find patterns — or any evidence that the composition of a team made any difference. Later into the research the project started analyzing group norms(traditions, behavioral standards and unwritten rules that govern how we function when we gather) and concluded that group norms were the keys to finding the answer.

As the researchers studied the groups, however, they noticed two behaviors that all the good teams generally shared. First, on the good teams, members spoke in roughly the same proportion, a phenomenon the researchers referred to as ‘‘equality in distribution of conversational turn-taking.’’ On some teams, everyone spoke during each task; on others, leadership shifted among teammates from assignment to assignment. But in each case, by the end of the day, everyone had spoken roughly the same amount. ‘‘As long as everyone got a chance to talk, the team did well,’’ Woolley said. ‘‘But if only one person or a small group spoke all the time, the collective intelligence declined.’’

Second, the good teams all had high ‘‘average social sensitivity’’ — a fancy way of saying they were skilled at intuiting how others felt based on their tone of voice, their expressions and other nonverbal cues. For Project Aristotle, research on psychological safety pointed to particular norms that are vital to success. There were other behaviors that seemed important as well — like making sure teams had clear goals and creating a culture of dependability. But Google’s data indicated that psychological safety, more than anything else, was critical to making a team work.

In conclusion, interestingly enough after billions of dollars spent by different companies researching behaviors of people in a team environment, the data led to the same conclusions that good managers have always known. In the best teams, members listen to one another and show sensitivity to feelings and needs. Emotional intelligence is crucial part of team building and relationships between people in general. Many modern tech leaders, like Microsoft's Satya Nadella, made emotional intelligence the core principal of their leadership style.

### From [www.nytimes.com](https://www.nytimes.com/2016/02/28/magazine/what-google-learned-from-its-quest-to-build-the-perfect-team.html)

### [_Go back to main page_](README.md)